release notes v0.38.0 (#2507)
grafana/k6: release notes/v0.38.0.md

```javascript
import exec from 'k6/execution';

export const options = {
  vus: 10,
  duration : '30s'
};

export default function() {
  console.log(exec.test.options.scenarios.default.vus) // 10
}
```

### Dumping SSL keys to an NSS formatted key log file ([#2487](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2487))

This release adds the ability to dump SSL keys while making TLS connections.
You then can use these keys to decrypt the whole traffic that k6 generates. 

To accomplish this, set the `SSLKEYLOGFILE` to some file path and run k6.
This will populate the file with the keys.
Then you can use Wireshark to capture the traffic, decrypt it, and use that for debugging. 

[Here's an example that uses curl to inspect TLS traffic](https://daniel.haxx.se/blog/2018/01/15/inspect-curls-tls-traffic/).

###  Tagging by stages

> A few helper functions have been added to the [k6-jslib-utils](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/jslib/utils) library for tagging automatically all the metric's samples with the current running stage.

Reviewer: btw, a short example will probably not be amiss here, it should be only a few lines of code and this feature has been requested a few times already

> A few helper functions have been added to the [k6-jslib-utils](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/jslib/utils) library for tagging automatically all the metric's samples with the current running stage.

Author: cc @codebien 👀

> A few helper functions have been added to the [k6-jslib-utils](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/jslib/utils) library for tagging automatically all the metric's samples with the current running stage.

Reviewer 2: I think we could just link the new published docs https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/tags-and-groups/#tagging-stages

> A few helper functions have been added to the [k6-jslib-utils](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/jslib/utils) library for tagging automatically all the metric's samples with the current running stage.

Reviewer: :+1: a link is also fine

## Breaking Changes

### `console` methods now pretty print objects and arrays ([2375](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2375))

For convenience, all `console` methods such as `console.log()` and `console.info()` will now automatically `JSON.stringify()` objects and arrays passed to it. Thus, instead of `console.log({'foo': 'bar'})` printing `[object Object]`, it will now print `{'foo': 'bar'}`, which will make the experience of debugging k6 scripts easier and more intuitive. 

The previous behavior can still be achieved by casting the `Object` to a `String`, as in `console.log(String({'foo': 'bar'}))`.  

```javascript
export default function () {
  console.log([1, 2, 'test', ['foo', 'bar'], { user: 'Bob' }])
  // before: 1,2,test,foo,bar,[object Object]
  // after: [1,2,"test",["foo","bar"],{"user":"Bob"}]

> }

Reviewer 3: I believe that we're missing ``` here (check the [View file](https://github.com/grafana/k6/blob/a9954251046a426bc71c848c0f94cc10e77f23da/release%20notes/v0.38.0.md))

Author: Fixed 🔧

```

### Deprecations

> * [2499](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2499/files) removed support for the deprecated max VU's `max` **option**.
> * This release drops some left overs from the previous version of our JS module APIs. As of **v0.38.0**, these are now unsupported:
>   * The deprecated `common.Bind` ([2488](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2448)) and `common.BindToGlobal` ([2451](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2451)) functions.
>   * The context-based (`common/context.go` [2488](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2448)) utils have also been removed. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#2499](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2499) removed support for the deprecated max VU's `max` **option**. It was been removed back in k6 v0.27.0, however using the CLI flag resulted only in a deprecation warning until now, and will now be an error.
* This release drops some left overs from the previous version of our JS module Go APIs. As of **v0.38.0**, these are now unsupported:
  * The deprecated `common.Bind` ([#2488](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2448)) and `common.BindToGlobal` ([#2451](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2451)) functions.
  * The context-based (`common/context.go` [#2488](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2448)) utils have also been removed. 
```

### Treat panics as interrupt errors ([#2453](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2453))

We changed the behavior of how k6 treats Go panics, which may happen because of bugs in k6 or in a JavaScript k6 extension. Previously, the behavior was to catch the panic and log it as an error. Starting with **v0.38.0**, whenever k6 observes a Go panic, it logs an error like before, but more importantly, it will abort the script execution and cause k6 to exit with a non-0 exit code. This will help extension authors to identify issues in their extensions more easily. 

### Miscellaneous

* [#2411](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2411) The k6 command-line UI (logo, test description and progerss bars) can now effectively be disabled using the [`--quiet`](https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/options/#quiet) flag.
* [#2429](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2429) `lib/types` now exposes the source of the `NullHostnameTrie` to simplify access to an original list of the hostnames.

> * [#2484](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2484) moved out in a new dedicated Go `lib/netext/grpcext` package all the parts not strictly required from the `js/k6/net/grpc` module for binding the gRPC operations and the JavaScript runtime. It facilitates the development of extensions based on gRPC without the direct dependency on the `goja` runtime. Furthermore, the new [Dial](https://github.com/grafana/k6/blob/bef458906f6884a99843573223028981c0a8b8db/lib/netext/grpcext/conn.go#L72-L81) function accepts a [grpc.DialOption](https://pkg.go.dev/google.golang.org/grpc@v1.45.0#DialOption) variadic for customizing the dialing operation.

Reviewer: This should be moved to the extension section below, under a header like this:

### gRPC module refactored to enable gRPC extensions to use it

## Extensions

### Event loop testing

With this release, you can [export the event loop](https://pkg.go.dev/go.k6.io/k6/js/eventloop) added in v0.37.0. This lets extensions developers test event-loop-dependant APIs.

There were also updates to [modulestest.VU](https://pkg.go.dev/go.k6.io/k6/js/modulestest#VU) to support the new API. Head to GitHub to [see it in action](https://github.com/grafana/k6/tree/master/cmd/integration_tests/testmodules/events).

> 

Reviewer: Besides the gRPC changes above that I think should be moved here, I think we should mention the https://github.com/grafana/xk6-websockets extension by @mstoykov here, something like this:

```suggestion

### PoC for a new WebSockets JS API

We built a new xk6 extension, https://github.com/grafana/xk6-websockets, with a proof of concept implementation for a new JavaScript WebSockets API. This API uses the global event loops [introduced in k6 v0.37.0](https://github.com/grafana/k6/releases/tag/v0.37.0) to allow a single VU to have multiple concurrent websocket connections open at the same time, greatly reducing the resources needed for large tests. It also is a step towards supporting the [official WebSockets JS standard](https://websockets.spec.whatwg.org/), potentially allowing the usage of more third-party JS libraries in the future. 

Please share any feedback you have about the new extension, since it's likely we'll adopt a future version of it into the k6 core in one of the next several k6 releases.
```

## Bugs Fixed!

* [#2456](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2456): Fixed a very unlikely panic involving arrival rate executors and execution segments with very low VU counts.

> * [#2349](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/2349): Thanks to @rainingmaster it is now possible to leave the options' tlsAuth `domains` property empty.

Reviewer 3: What do you think about providing the links to the contributor's GitHub (here and in other places)? Like we did in previous release notes?

Author: Last time I wrote release notes @codebien told me it would be done automagically by GitHub. I believe it worked. Let me know if that's not the case.

Reviewer 3: Double-checked and you're (and @codebien) absolutely right here :+1: 

It doesn't preview link in a View file mode, but which is more important, it produces a special section `Contributors` in the release notes. And for example for the [last release](https://github.com/grafana/k6/releases/tag/v0.37.0) there is no section since I tried to make the links :cry:

k6 v0.38.0 is here! 🎉

## New Features!

### AWS JSLib

There's a new addition to the officially supported k6 JavaScript libraries: [k6-jslib-aws](https://github.com/grafana/k6-jslib-aws).

> This library lets users interact with a selection of AWS services directly from their scrips. The library currently implements support for the [S3](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/jslib/aws/s3client/) and the [Secrets Manager](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/jslib/aws/secretsmanagerclient/) services.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This library lets users interact with a selection of AWS services directly from their scripts. The library currently implements support for the [S3](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/jslib/aws/s3client/) and the [Secrets Manager](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/jslib/aws/secretsmanagerclient/) services.
```

> [The AWS JS lib documentaion](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/jslib/aws) has examples and details on how to use the library in your scripts.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[The AWS JS lib documentation](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/jslib/aws) has examples and details on how to use the library in your scripts.
```

Using the newly accessible consolidated script options described above, we have added a few helper functions to the [k6-jslib-utils](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/jslib/utils) library. They can be used to automatically tag all the emitted metric samples by k6 with the currently running stage.

## Breaking Changes

### `console` methods now pretty print objects and arrays ([2375](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2375))

For convenience, all `console` methods such as `console.log()` and `console.info()` will now automatically `JSON.stringify()` objects and arrays passed to it. Thus, instead of `console.log({'foo': 'bar'})` printing `[object Object]`, it will now print `{'foo': 'bar'}`, which will make the experience of debugging k6 scripts easier and more intuitive. 

The previous behavior can still be achieved by casting the `Object` to a `String`, as in `console.log(String({'foo': 'bar'}))`.  

```javascript
export default function () {
  console.log([1, 2, 'test', ['foo', 'bar'], { user: 'Bob' }])
  // before: 1,2,test,foo,bar,[object Object]
  // after: [1,2,"test",["foo","bar"],{"user":"Bob"}]
}
```

### Deprecations

> * [#2499](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2499) removed support for the deprecated max VU's `max` **option**. It was been removed back in k6 v0.27.0, however using the CLI flag resulted only in a deprecation warning until now, and will now be an error.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* [#2499](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2499) removed support for the deprecated max VU's `max` **option**. It has been removed back in k6 v0.27.0, however using the CLI flag resulted only in a deprecation warning until now, and will now be an error.
```

      password: 'mycert-passphrase',
    },
  ],
};
```

Thanks, @Gabrielopesantos, for the [contribution](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2488).

### Improve JSON output's performance ([#2436](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2436))

The JSON output was optimized and now should around 2x as more performant at outputting metrics.  This means that it either will be able to export twice as many metrics and to use half the resources to do the same amount of metrics. As a side effect, there is a slight breaking change in which the `tags` field is no longer sorted, while it was previously.

### Treat panics as interrupt errors ([#2453](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2453))

We changed the behavior of how k6 treats Go panics, which may happen because of bugs in k6 or in a JavaScript k6 extension. Previously, the behavior was to catch the panic and log it as an error. Starting with **v0.38.0**, whenever k6 observes a Go panic, it logs an error like before, but more importantly, it will abort the script execution and cause k6 to exit with a non-0 exit code. This will help extension authors to identify issues in their extensions more easily. 

### Miscellaneous

> * [#2411](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2411) The k6 command-line UI (logo, test description and progerss bars) can now effectively be disabled using the [`--quiet`](https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/options/#quiet) flag.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* [#2411](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2411) The k6 command-line UI (logo, test description and progress bars) can now effectively be disabled using the [`--quiet`](https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/options/#quiet) flag.
```

* [#2429](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2429) `lib/types` now exposes the source of the `NullHostnameTrie` to simplify access to an original list of the hostnames.

## Extensions

### PoC for a new WebSockets JS API

We built a new xk6 extension, https://github.com/grafana/xk6-websockets, with a proof of concept implementation for a new JavaScript WebSockets API. This API uses the global event loops [introduced in k6 v0.37.0](https://github.com/grafana/k6/releases/tag/v0.37.0) to allow a single VU to have multiple concurrent websocket connections open at the same time, greatly reducing the resources needed for large tests. It also is a step towards supporting the [official WebSockets JS standard](https://websockets.spec.whatwg.org/), potentially allowing the usage of more third-party JS libraries in the future. 

> Please share any feedback you have about the new extension, since it's likely we'll adopt a future version of it into the k6 core in one of the next several k6 releas

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Please share any feedback you have about the new extension, since it's likely we'll adopt a future version of it into the k6 core in one of the next several k6 release.
```

### Accessing the consolidated and derived options from the default function ([#2493](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2493))

The `k6/execution` core module now lets you access the [consolidated and derived](https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/options/#where-to-set-options) options that k6 computed before it started executing the test. You can access consolidated options through the `exec.test.options` property. Note that consolidated options are frozen and cannot be modified. [The k6 execution module's documentation](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/k6-execution/#test) has examples and details on how to use the functionality in your scripts. 

```javascript
import exec from 'k6/execution';

export const options = {
  vus: 10,
  duration : '30s'
};

export default function() {
  console.log(exec.test.options.scenarios.default.vus) // 10
}
```

### Dumping SSL keys to an NSS formatted key log file ([#2487](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2487))

This release adds the ability to dump SSL keys while making TLS connections.
You then can use these keys to decrypt the whole traffic that k6 generates. 

> To accomplish this, set the `SSLKEYLOGFILE` to some file path and run k6.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To accomplish this, set the `SSLKEYLOGFILE` environment variable to some file path and run k6.
```

This will populate the file with the keys.
Then you can use Wireshark to capture the traffic, decrypt it, and use that for debugging. 

[Here's an example that uses curl to inspect TLS traffic](https://daniel.haxx.se/blog/2018/01/15/inspect-curls-tls-traffic/).

###  Tagging metric values with the current scenario stage

> Using the newly accessible consolidated script options described above, we have added a few helper functions to the [k6-jslib-utils](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/jslib/utils) library. They can be used to automatically tag all the emitted metric samples by k6 with the currently running stage.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
With the new consolidated script options, we've added a few helper functions to the [k6-jslib-utils](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/jslib/utils) library. You can use them to automatically tag all the emitted metric samples by k6 with the currently running stage.
```

## Breaking Changes

### `console` methods now pretty print objects and arrays ([2375](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2375))

For convenience, all `console` methods such as `console.log()` and `console.info()` will now automatically `JSON.stringify()` objects and arrays passed to it. Thus, instead of `console.log({'foo': 'bar'})` printing `[object Object]`, it will now print `{'foo': 'bar'}`, which will make the experience of debugging k6 scripts easier and more intuitive. 

> The previous behavior can still be achieved by casting the `Object` to a `String`, as in `console.log(String({'foo': 'bar'}))`.  

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
To achieve the previous behavior, cast the `Object` to a `String`, as in `console.log(String({'foo': 'bar'}))`.  
```

* k6 will now detect invalid thresholds:
    ```javascript
    export const options = {
      // ...    
      thresholds: {
        // Incorrect thresholds expressions:
        http_req_failed: ['rave<0.01'],  // e.g. "rave" is not a valid aggregation method
        // Thresholds applying to a non-existing metrics:
        iDoNotExist: ['p(95)<200'], // e.g. the metric 'iDoNotExist' does not exist
        // Thresholds applying an aggregation method that's unsupported by the metric they apply to:          
        my_counter: ['p(95)<200'], // Counter metrics do not support the p() aggregation method
     },
    };
    ```

### Disabling colors ([#2410](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2410))

In addition to the [`--no-color` CLI flag](https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/options/#no-color), the ANSI color escape codes emitted by k6 can now also be disabled by setting the `NO_COLOR` or `K6_NO_COLOR` environment variables, following the [NO_COLOR standard](https://no-color.org/).

```bash
# No color output
K6_NO_COLOR=true k6 run script.js

# No color output
NO_COLOR= k6 run script.js
```

> ### Support for encrypted TLS private keys

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Support for encrypted TLS private keys ([#2488](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2488))
```

> You can now use passphrase-protected private keys when authenticating with TLS. Using the `password` property of an options' `tlsAuth` object, you can now indicate the passphrase to use to decrypt a private key. Note that this support is limited to the scope of [RFC1423](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc1423) and does not support PKCS8 keys, as they're not yet supported by the Golang standard library. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
You can now use passphrase-protected private keys when authenticating with TLS. Using the `password` property of an options' `tlsAuth` object, you can now indicate the passphrase to decrypt a private key. Note that this support is limited to the scope of [RFC1423](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc1423) and does not support PKCS8 keys, as they're not yet supported by the Golang standard library. 
```

```javascript
export const options = {
  tlsAuth: [
    {
      domains: ['example.com'],
      cert: open('mycert.pem'),
      key: open('mycert-key.pem'),
      password: 'mycert-passphrase',
    },
  ],
};
```

Thanks, @Gabrielopesantos, for the [contribution](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2488).

### Improve JSON output's performance ([#2436](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2436))

> The JSON output was optimized and now should be around 2x as more performant at outputting metrics.  This means that it either will be able to export twice as many metrics and use half the resources to do the same amount of metrics. As a side effect, there is a slight breaking change in which the `tags` field is no longer sorted, while it was previously.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The JSON output was optimized and now should be around 2x more performant at outputting metrics.  This means that it either can export twice as many metrics, or use half the resources to do the same amount of metrics.

As a side effect, there is a slight breaking change: the `tags` field is no longer sorted.
```

### Treat panics as interrupt errors ([#2453](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2453))

> We changed the behavior of how k6 treats Go panics, which may happen because of bugs in k6 or in a JavaScript k6 extension. Previously, the behavior was to catch the panic and log it as an error. Starting with **v0.38.0**, whenever k6 observes a Go panic, it logs an error like before, but more importantly, it will abort the script execution and cause k6 to exit with a non-0 exit code. This will help extension authors to identify issues in their extensions more easily. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
We changed the behavior of how k6 treats Go panics, which may happen because of bugs in k6 or in a JavaScript k6 extension. Previously, the behavior was to catch the panic and log it as an error.

Starting with **v0.38.0**, whenever k6 observes a Go panic, it logs an error like before, but more importantly, it will abort the script execution and cause k6 to exit with a non-0 exit code. This will help extension authors to identify issues in their extensions more easily. 
```

  vus: 10,
  duration : '30s'
};

export default function() {
  console.log(exec.test.options.scenarios.default.vus) // 10
}
```

### Dumping SSL keys to an NSS formatted key log file ([2487](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2487))

This release adds the ability to dump SSL keys while making TLS connections.
You can then can use these keys to decrypt the whole traffic that k6 generates. 

To do this, set the `SSLKEYLOGFILE` to some file path and run k6.
This will populate the file with the keys.
Then you can use Wireshark to capture the traffic, decrypt it, and use that for debugging. 

[Here's an example that uses curl to inspect TLS traffic](https://daniel.haxx.se/blog/2018/01/15/inspect-curls-tls-traffic/).

### AWS JSLib

There's a new addition to the officially supported k6 JavaScript libraries: [k6-jslib-aws](https://github.com/grafana/k6-jslib-aws).
This library lets users interact with a selection of AWS services directly from their scrips. The library currently implements support for the [S3](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/jslib/aws/s3client/) and the [Secrets Manager](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/jslib/aws/secretsmanagerclient/) services.

> [The AWS JS lib documentaion](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/jslib/aws) has examples and details on how to use the library in your own scripts.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[The AWS JS lib documentation](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/jslib/aws) has examples and details on how to use the library in your own scripts.
```

> ###  Tagging metric values with the current scenario stage

Reviewer: Ah, actually this should still be moved above `Dumping SSL keys`, so it's right below the other new feature it depends on. And a link to the docs needs to be added.

A few helper functions have been added to the [k6-jslib-utils](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/jslib/utils) library for tagging automatically all the metric's samples with the current running stage.
## Breaking Changes

> ### `console.log` and `console.info` pretty prints objects and arrays ([2375](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2375))
> 
> For convenience, all `console` methods such as `console.log` and `console.info` will now automatically `JSON.stringify` objects and arrays passed to it. Thus, instead of `console.log({'foo': 'bar'})` printing `[object Object]`, it will now print `{'foo': 'bar'}`, which will make the experience of debugging k6 scripts easier and more intuitive. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `console` methods now pretty print objects and arrays ([2375](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2375))

For convenience, all `console` methods such as `console.log()` and `console.info()` will now automatically `JSON.stringify()` objects and arrays passed to it. Thus, instead of `console.log({'foo': 'bar'})` printing `[object Object]`, it will now print `{'foo': 'bar'}`, which will make the experience of debugging k6 scripts easier and more intuitive. 
```

> For convenience, all `console` methods such as `console.log()` and `console.info()` will now automatically `JSON.stringify()` objects and arrays passed to it. Thus, instead of `console.log({'foo': 'bar'})` printing `[object Object]`, it will now print `{'foo': 'bar'}`, which will make the experience of debugging k6 scripts easier and more intuitive. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For convenience, all `console` methods such as `console.log()` and `console.info()` will now automatically `JSON.stringify()` objects and arrays passed to them. Thus, instead of `console.log({'foo': 'bar'})` printing `[object Object]`, it will now print `{'foo': 'bar'}`, which will make the experience of debugging k6 scripts easier and more intuitive. 
```

> **Objects**
> 
> ```javascript
> export default function () {
>   var user = [{}]
> 
>   console.log("the user", user) 
>   // before: the user [object Object]
>   // after: the user {"name":"Bob"}
> }
> ```
> 
> **arrays**
> 
> ```javascript
> export default function () {
>   var user = {name: "Bob"}
> 
>   console.log([1, 2, "mytest", {user: "Bob"}]) 
>   // before: 1,2,mytest,[object Object]
>   // after: [1,2,"mytest",{"user":"Bob"}]
> }
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```javascript
export default function () {
  console.log([1, 2, 'test', ['foo', 'bar'], { user: 'Bob' }])
  // before: 1,2,test,foo,bar,[object Object]
  // after: [1,2,"test",["foo","bar"],{"user":"Bob"}]
}
```
```

### Deprecations

* [2499](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2499/files) removed support for the deprecated max VU's `max` **option**.

> * This release drops some left overs from the previous version of our JS module APIs. As of **v0.38-0**, these are now unsupported:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* This release drops some left overs from the previous version of our JS module APIs. As of **v0.38.0**, these are now unsupported:
```

   
## Enhancements and UX improvements

### Stricter thresholds' evaluation before the execution starts ([#2330](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/2330))

k6 **v0.37.0** already improved thresholds parsing by switching its underlying implementation from JavaScript to Go. k6 **v0.38.0** introduces two additional improvements:
* k6 will now parse and evaluate thresholds before the execution starts. If a threshold is invalid, as described below, k6 will immediately exit without starting the load test. 
* k6 will now detect invalid thresholds:
    ```javascript
    export const options = {
      // ...    
      thresholds: {
          // Incorrect thresholds expressions:
          http_req_failed: ['rave<0.01'],  // e.g. "rave" is not a valid aggregation method
          // Thresholds applying to a non-existing metrics:
          iDoNotExist: ['p(95)<200'], // e.g. the metric 'iDoNotExist' does not exist
          // Thresholds applying an aggregation method that's unsupported by the metric they apply to:          
          my_counter: ['p(95)<200'], // Counter metrics do not support the p() aggregation method
     },

>     };

Reviewer: Sorry, I think my suggestion had wrong indentation, it mixed 2 and 4 spaces and next to last bracket has only 1 space. Also, I think GitHub ate the last triple-backticks to end the code block

      password: 'mycert-passphrase',
    },
  ],
};
```

Thanks, @Gabrielopesantos, for the [contribution](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2488).

### Improve JSON output's performance ([2436](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2436))

The JSON output was optimized and now should around 2x as more performant at outputting metrics.  This means that it either will be able to export twice as many metrics and/or to use half the resources to do the same amount of metrics. As a side effect, there is a slight breaking change in which the `tags` field is no longer sorted, while it was previously.

### Treat panics as interrupt errors ([2453](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2453))

We changed the behavior of how k6 treats Go panics, which may happen because of bugs in k6 or in a JavaScript k6 extension. Previously, the behavior was to catch the panic and log it as an error. Starting with **v0.38.0**, whenever k6 observes a Go panic, it logs an error like before, but more importantly, it will abort the script execution and cause k6 to exit with a non-0 exit code. This will help extension authors to identify issues in their extensions more easily. 

### Miscellaneous

> * [2411](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2411) The k6 command-line UI (logo, test description and progerss bars) can now effectively be disabled using the [`--quiet`](https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/options/#quiet) flag.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* [2411](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2411) The k6 command-line UI (logo, test description and progress bars) can now effectively be disabled using the [`--quiet`](https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/options/#quiet) flag.
```

## Extensions

### Event loop testing

With this release, you can [export the event loop](https://pkg.go.dev/go.k6.io/k6/js/eventloop) added in v0.37.0. This lets extensions developers test event-loop-dependant APIs.

There were also updates to [modulestest.VU](https://pkg.go.dev/go.k6.io/k6/js/modulestest#VU) to support the new API. Head to GitHub to [see it in action](https://github.com/grafana/k6/tree/master/cmd/integration_tests/testmodules/events).

## Bugs Fixed!

* [2456](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2456): Fixed a very unlikely panic involving arrival rate executors and execution segments with very low VU counts.
* [2349](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2349): Thanks to @rainingmaster it is now possible to leave the options' tlsAuth `domains` property empty.
* [1346](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/1346): Thresholds over custom metrics for which no data was collected will now be evaluated.
* [2390](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2390): Thresholds over custom (+tagged) metrics will now return the appropriate results. 

> * [2480](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2480): Fixed an error occuring when passing the `data` property of an `http.file` as a request body.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* [2480](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2480): Fixed an error occurring when passing the `data` property of an `http.file` as a request body.
```

> * [2456](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2456): Fixed a very unlikely panic involving arrival rate executors and execution segments with very low VU counts.
> * [2349](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2349): Thanks to @rainingmaster it is now possible to leave the options' tlsAuth `domains` property empty.
> * [1346](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/1346): Thresholds over custom metrics for which no data was collected will now be evaluated.
> * [2390](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2390): Thresholds over custom (+tagged) metrics will now return the appropriate results. 
> * [2480](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2480): Fixed an error occuring when passing the `data` property of an `http.file` as a request body.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#2456](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2456): Fixed a very unlikely panic involving arrival rate executors and execution segments with very low VU counts.
* [#2349](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2349): Thanks to @rainingmaster it is now possible to leave the options' tlsAuth `domains` property empty.
* [#1346](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/1346): Thresholds over metrics for which no data was collected will now be evaluated.
* [#2390](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/2390): Thresholds over sub-metrics with empty tag values will now return the appropriate results. 
* [#2480](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/2480): Fixed an error occurring when passing the `data` property of an `http.file()` result as a request body.
```

## Known issues

> * @hecnavsanz [reported to us](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/2500) that in certain scenarios, k6's UI might inacurately report a test as failed :x: when it actually succeeded :white_check_mark:. This is caused by some concurrency issue in our codebase that only affects the report's UI, and has no impact on the actual test result. A [fix](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2502) is in the works, but won't be ready for this version. We expect to ship it with the next k6 release instead.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* @hecnavsanz [reported to us](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/2500) that in certain scenarios, k6's UI might inaccurately report a test as failed :x: when it actually succeeded :white_check_mark:. This is caused by some concurrency issue in our codebase that only affects the report's UI, and has no impact on the actual test result. A [fix](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2502) is in the works, but won't be ready for this version. We expect to ship it with the next k6 release instead.
```

The `k6/execution` core module now allows accessing the consolidated and derived options k6 computed before starting the execution of the test. Consolidated options can be accessed through the `exec.test.option` property. Note that consolidated options are frozen and cannot be modified.

```javascript
import exec from 'k6/execution';

export const options = {
  vus: 10,
  duration : '30s'
};

export default function() {
  console.log(exec.test.options.scenarios.default.vus) // 10
}
```

### Dumping SSL keys to an NSS formatted key log file ([2487](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2487))

Add the ability to dump SSL keys while making TLS connections, which then can be used to decrypt the whole traffic k6 generates. 

This is done through setting the `SSLKEYLOGFILE` to some file path that and running k6. This will populate the file with the keys, and then you can use Wireshark to capture the traffic, decrypt it and use that for debugging. 

You can look at how this is done with curl [here](https://daniel.haxx.se/blog/2018/01/15/inspect-curls-tls-traffic/).

### Event loop testing

> [Exporting the event loop](https://pkg.go.dev/go.k6.io/k6@v0.37.0/js/eventloop) added in v0.37.0, this lets extensions developers to use it to test. This also includes updates to [modulestest.VU](https://pkg.go.dev/go.k6.io/k6/js/modulestest#VU) to support the new API.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
[Exporting the event loop](https://pkg.go.dev/go.k6.io/k6/js/eventloop) added in v0.37.0, this lets extensions developers to use it to test event loop dependant APIs. Updates to [modulestest.VU](https://pkg.go.dev/go.k6.io/k6/js/modulestest#VU) to support the new API were also made.
```

The version needs not to be 0.37.0 as that package only (will) exist after 0.38.0

> TODO have an example here

Author: I've added your example. Let me know if you come up with a better version you'd want to integrate further down the line 🤝

### AWS JSLib

There's a new addition to the officially supported k6 JavaScript libraries: [k6-jslib-aws](https://github.com/grafana/k6-jslib-aws) will allow users to interact with a selection of AWS services directly from their scrips. The library currently implements support for the S3 and the Secrets Manager services.

Here's an example of using the `S3Client` to download some input from S3, and upload results back to it:
```javascript
import { check } from 'k6';
import exec from 'k6/execution';
import http from 'k6/http';

> import { AWSConfig, S3Client } from 'https://jslib.k6.io/aws/0.3.0/s3.js';

Author: Yes, I was waiting for the merge in jslib, which is now done 👍🏻

The previous behavior can still be achieved by casting the `Object` to a `String`, as in `console.log(String({'foo': 'bar'}))`.  

**Objects**

```javascript
export default function () {
  var user = [{}]

  console.log("the user", user) 
  // before: the user [object Object]
  // after: the user {"name":"Bob"}
}
```

**arrays**

```javascript
export default function () {
  var user = {name: "Bob"}

  console.log([1, 2, "mytest", {user: "Bob"}]) 
  // before: 1,2,mytest,[object Object]
  // after: [1,2,"mytest",{"user":"Bob"}]
}
```

### Disabling colors ([2410](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2410))

k6 output colors can now be disabled. Following the *NO_COLOR* standard, setting the `NO_COLOR` or `K6_NO_COLOR` environment variables allow you to disable k6's usage of ANSI color escape codes.

```bash
# No color output

> K6_NO_COLOR= k6 run script.js

Author: I tried to figure out from the PR, but honestly couldn't find the expected behavior anymore. Gonna triple check 👍🏻

> K6_NO_COLOR= k6 run script.js

Author: I checked, and you're right indeed 👍🏻 Fixing it!

* k6 will now parse and evaluate thresholds before the execution starts. If a threshold is invalid, as described below, k6 will immediately exit without starting the load test. 
* k6 will now detect invalid thresholds:
  * incorrect thresholds expressions:
    ```javascript
    export const options = {
      vus: 5,
      iterations: 30,
      thresholds: {
          http_req_failed: ['rave<0.01'],  // "rave" is not a valid aggregation method
      },
    };
    
    ``` 
  * thresholds applying to a non-existing metric
    ```javascript
    export const options = {
      vus: 5,
      iterations: 30,
      thresholds: {
          iDoNotExist: ['p(95)<200'], // The metric we apply the expression to does not exist
      },
    };
    ```
  * thresholds applying an aggregation method that's unsupported by the metric they apply to
    ```javascript
    export const options = {
      vus: 5,
      iterations: 30,
      thresholds: {
          my_counter: ['p(95)<200'], // Counter metrics do not support the p() aggregation method
      },
    };
    ```

### Support for encrypted TLS private keys

> It is now possible to use passphrase protected private keys when performing TLS authentication. Using the `password` property of an options' `tlsAuth` object, you can now indicate to k6 the passphrase to use to decrypt a private key. 

Author: Good catch. It wasn't immediately clear to me from the PR. Glad you cleared that out 👍🏻

* [2411](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2411) The k6 command-line UI (logo, test description and progerss bars) can now effectively be disabled using the [`--quiet`](https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/options/#quiet) flag.
* [2411](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2411) The logs can now be saved to a file, or sent to Loki, or completely disabled with [`--log-output`](https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/options/#log-output) flag.
* [2411](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2411) the end-of-test summary can be sent to a remote server or to file through [`handleSummary()`](https://k6.io/docs/results-visualization/end-of-test-summary/#handlesummary-callback).
* [2429](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2429) `lib/types` now exposes the source of the `NullHostnameTrie` to simplify the access to an original list of the hostnames.

> ## Bugs Fixed!

Reviewer 6: We should probably add https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2502 under "Known issues", given that we know about it, but don't want to fix it just before a release, given it's very small and UX-only impact

Author: I've added a "Known issues" section, where I tried to detail the #2502 issue. Please let me know if you think my description of the issue was accurate enough 🤝

* [2456](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2456) Fixed a very unlikely panic involving arrival rate executors and execution segments with very low VU counts.
* [2349](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2349) Thanks to @rainingmaster it is now possible to leave the options' tlsAuth `domains` property empty.

## Maintenance

### Dependencies

* [2479](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2479) updated k6's Goja version to `9037c2b61cbf`.
* [2449](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2449), [2446](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2446), [2444](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2444), and [2443](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2443) updated k6 Go dependencies to their latest compatible versions.
 
### Miscelaneous

* [2504](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2504) updated our installation instructions to reflect the recent changes in the behavior of the `go install` command. Thanks @JamieEdge, for your contribution!

> * [2437](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2437) refreshed out contribution guidelines.

Author: Indeed 🙇🏻  Got lost in the trail of dependencies update PRs 👍🏻

* [2411](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2411) The k6 command-line UI (logo, test description and progerss bars) can now effectively be disabled using the [`--quiet`](https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/options/#quiet) flag.
* [2411](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2411) The logs can now be saved to a file, or sent to Loki, or completely disabled with [`--log-output`](https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/options/#log-output) flag.
* [2411](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2411) the end-of-test summary can be sent to a remote server or to file through [`handleSummary()`](https://k6.io/docs/results-visualization/end-of-test-summary/#handlesummary-callback).
* [2429](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2429) `lib/types` now exposes the source of the `NullHostnameTrie` to simplify the access to an original list of the hostnames.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

* [#2484](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2484) moved out in a new dedicated Go `lib/netext/grpcext` package all the parts not strictly required from the `js/k6/net/grpc` module for binding the gRPC operations and the JavaScript runtime. It facilitates the development of extensions based on gRPC without the direct dependency on the `goja` runtime. Furthermore, the new [Dial](https://github.com/grafana/k6/blob/bef458906f6884a99843573223028981c0a8b8db/lib/netext/grpcext/conn.go#L72-L81) function accepts a [grpc.DialOption](https://pkg.go.dev/google.golang.org/grpc@v1.45.0#DialOption) variadic for customizing the dialing operation.
```
@oleiade feel free to improve it

Author: Danke Schoen! 🙇🏻

* [2349](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2349) Thanks to @rainingmaster it is now possible to leave the options' tlsAuth `domains` property empty.

## Known issues

* @hecnavsanz [reported to us](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/2500) that in certain scenarios, k6's UI might inacurately report a test as failed :x: when it actually succeeded :white_check_mark:. This is caused by some concurrency issue in our codebase that only affects the report's UI, and has no impact on the actual test result. A [fix](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2502) is in the work, but won't be ready for this version. We expect to ship it with the next k6 release instead.

## Maintenance

### Dependencies

* [2479](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2479) updated k6's Goja version to `9037c2b61cbf`.
* [2449](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2449), [2446](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2446), [2444](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2444), and [2443](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2443) updated k6 Go dependencies to their latest compatible versions.
 

> ### Miscelaneous

Reviewer 2: We already have the `Miscellaneous` section, I guess we want to merge them.

Author: This is a subsection of the `## Maintenance`. But point taken, I've renamed this one to `### Other` 😸

k6 v0.38.0 is here! 🎉

> ## New Features!

Author: Can you suggest the order that would appear natural to you? As the notes' writer, I honestly think I lack the ability to take a step back at this point 😸

> ## New Features!

Reviewer 5: Hmm, just guessing as to what the most users may use:

```
## New Features!

This release's new features include a new JS library, the ability to access option values in VU code, and new functionality to inspect TLS traffic.

### AWS JSLib
### Access options from the default function
### Dump SSL keys to a key log file
### Tag by stages
```

> ### Accessing the consolidated and derived options from the default function ([2493](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2493))

Author: That's a good point, could you suggest something @codebien, please? 👀

> ### Accessing the consolidated and derived options from the default function ([2493](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2493))

Reviewer 2: >Why would someone want to do this?

The motivation is like the title says _Accessing the consolidated and derived options_. In the currently released versions, all the available ways were hacks and workarounds and it hasn't been any guarantee in terms of API and consistency.

I hope the following example explains better the goal:

```javascript
import exec from 'k6/execution'

export const options = {
	vus: 1,
	iterations: 1,
  tags: { mytag: 'myvalue' },
};

export default function() {
	console.log(options.tags.mytag);
	console.log(exec.test.options.tags.mytag); // consolidated case 

	console.log(options.scenarios.default);
	console.log(exec.test.options.scenarios.default); // derived case
}

---
INFO[0000] undefined                                     source=console
INFO[0000] myvalue                                       source=console
INFO[0000] undefined                                     source=console
INFO[0000] {"executor":"shared-iterations","startTime":null,"gracefulStop":null,"env":null,"exec":null,"tags":null,"vus":1,"iterations":1,"maxDuration":null}  source=console
```

An additional real case where you can find more details could be this open issue https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/2278 

@oleiade I think we could add also a link to the docs page where it will be available the documentation for this feature. https://github.com/grafana/k6-docs/pull/629
The link should be: https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/k6-execution/#test

> ### Accessing the consolidated and derived options from the default function ([2493](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2493))

Author: I've added a link to the documentation section, indeed. If you folks wish to add an explanation as to which scenarios and workflows users should use this in, feel free to post a commitable suggestion. Otherwise, we'll resolve and leave it as it 👍🏻

The `k6/execution` core module now allows accessing the consolidated and derived options k6 computed before starting the execution of the test. Consolidated options can be accessed through the `exec.test.option` property. Note that consolidated options are frozen and cannot be modified.

```javascript
import exec from 'k6/execution';

export const options = {
  vus: 10,
  duration : '30s'
};

export default function() {
  console.log(exec.test.options.scenarios.default.vus) // 10
}
```

### Dumping SSL keys to an NSS formatted key log file ([2487](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2487))

Add the ability to dump SSL keys while making TLS connections, which then can be used to decrypt the whole traffic k6 generates. 

This is done through setting the `SSLKEYLOGFILE` to some file path that and running k6. This will populate the file with the keys, and then you can use Wireshark to capture the traffic, decrypt it and use that for debugging. 

You can look at how this is done with curl [here](https://daniel.haxx.se/blog/2018/01/15/inspect-curls-tls-traffic/).

### Event loop testing

> [Exporting the event loop](https://pkg.go.dev/go.k6.io/k6/js/eventloop) added in v0.37.0, this lets extensions developers to use it to test event loop dependant APIs. Updates to [modulestest.VU](https://pkg.go.dev/go.k6.io/k6/js/modulestest#VU) to support the new API were also made.

Author: My understanding is that we implemented the event loop in v0.37.0, but did not export/expose it to the users. v0.38.0 changes that 👍🏻

> [Exporting the event loop](https://pkg.go.dev/go.k6.io/k6/js/eventloop) added in v0.37.0, this lets extensions developers to use it to test event loop dependant APIs. Updates to [modulestest.VU](https://pkg.go.dev/go.k6.io/k6/js/modulestest#VU) to support the new API were also made.

Reviewer: It was exposed in v0.37.0 as well, you could write an extension that used it, it is just slightly refactored in v0.38.0, see https://github.com/grafana/k6/blob/v0.37.0/js/initcontext.go#L184-L186

> [Exporting the event loop](https://pkg.go.dev/go.k6.io/k6/js/eventloop) added in v0.37.0, this lets extensions developers to use it to test event loop dependant APIs. Updates to [modulestest.VU](https://pkg.go.dev/go.k6.io/k6/js/modulestest#VU) to support the new API were also made.

Author: Thanks for the clarification 👍🏻

> ```go

Reviewer 7: Maybe link to the code in the k6 repo as well? just so someone can go look at it if they want :thinking:

	vu := &modulestest.VU{
		RuntimeField: rt,
		InitEnvField: &common.InitEnvironment{},
		CtxField:     context.Background(),
		StateField:   nil,
	}

	m, ok := New().NewModuleInstance(vu).(*Events)
	require.True(t, ok)
	var log []string
	require.NoError(t, rt.Set("events", m.Exports().Named))
	require.NoError(t, rt.Set("print", func(s string) { log = append(log, s) }))
	loop := eventloop.New(vu)
	vu.RegisterCallbackField = loop.RegisterCallback

	err := loop.Start(func() error {
		_, err := vu.Runtime().RunString(`
      events.setTimeout(()=> {
        print("in setTimeout")
      })
      print("outside setTimeout")
      `)
		return err
	})
	require.NoError(t, err)
	require.Equal(t, []string{"outside setTimeout", "in setTimeout"}, log)
}
```

### AWS JSLib

There's a new addition to the officially supported k6 JavaScript libraries: [k6-jslib-aws](https://github.com/grafana/k6-jslib-aws) will allow users to interact with a selection of AWS services directly from their scrips. The library currently implements support for the S3 and the Secrets Manager services.

Here's an example of using the `S3Client` to download some input from S3, and upload results back to it:

> ```javascript

Author: No objections 👍🏻

    throw `object ${testInputFileKey} not found in bucket ${testBucketName}`
  }

  // Download the S3 object containing our test data
  const inputObject = s3.getObject(testBucketName, testInputFileKey);
  
  // Let's return the downloaded S3 object's data from the
  // setup function to allow the default function to use it.
  return {
    productIDs: JSON.parse(inputObject.data),
  };
}

export default function (data) {
  // Pick a random product ID from our test data
  const randomProductID = data.productIDs[Math.floor(Math.random() * data.productIDs.length)];
  // Query our ecommerce website's product page using the ID
  const res = http.get(`http://your.website.com/product/${randomProductID}/`);
  check(res, { 'is status 200': res.status === 200 });
}

export function handleSummary(data) {
  // Once the load test is over, let's upload the results to our
  // S3 bucket. This is executed after teardown.
  s3.putObject(testBucketName, testOutputFileKey, JSON.stringify(data));
}
```

Head to the [documentation](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/jslib/aws) for more examples and details on how to use the library in your own scripts.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Tagging stages

Few helper functions have been added to the [k6-jslib-utils](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/jslib/utils) library for tagging automatically all the metric's samples with the current running stage.
```
I forgot to spot it before https://github.com/grafana/k6-jslib-utils/pull/6

## Breaking Changes

### `console.log` and `console.info` pretty prints objects and arrays ([2375](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2375))

> For convenience, methods like `console.log` and `console.info` will now automatically `JSON.stringify` objects and arrays passed to it. Thus, when the `console.log({'foo': 'bar'})` statement used to print `[object Object]`, it will now print `{'foo': 'bar'}` instead, which will make the experience of debugging k6 scripts easier and more intuitive. 

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
For convenience, all `console` methods such as `console.log` and `console.info` will now automatically `JSON.stringify` objects and arrays passed to it. Thus, instead of `console.log({'foo': 'bar'})` printing `[object Object]`, it will now print `{'foo': 'bar'}`, which will make the experience of debugging k6 scripts easier and more intuitive. 
```

The previous behavior can still be achieved by casting the `Object` to a `String`, as in `console.log(String({'foo': 'bar'}))`.  

**Objects**

```javascript
export default function () {
  var user = [{}]

  console.log("the user", user) 
  // before: the user [object Object]
  // after: the user {"name":"Bob"}
}
```

**arrays**

```javascript
export default function () {
  var user = {name: "Bob"}

  console.log([1, 2, "mytest", {user: "Bob"}]) 
  // before: 1,2,mytest,[object Object]
  // after: [1,2,"mytest",{"user":"Bob"}]
}
```

> ### Disabling colors ([2410](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2410))

Reviewer 5: Why is this a breaking change?

> k6 output colors can now be disabled. Following the *NO_COLOR* standard, setting the `NO_COLOR` or `K6_NO_COLOR` environment variables allow you to disable k6's usage of ANSI color escape codes.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
k6 output colors can now be disabled. Following the *NO_COLOR* standard, setting the `NO_COLOR` or `K6_NO_COLOR` environment variables let you disable the ANSI color escape codes.
```

```bash
# No color output
K6_NO_COLOR=true k6 run script.js

# No color output
NO_COLOR= k6 run script.js
```

### Deprecations

* [2499](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2499/files) removed support for the deprecated max VU's `max` **option**.

> *  dropped The deprecated `common.Bind` ([2488](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2448)) and `common.BindToGlobal` ([2451](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2451)) functions as well as the context-based (`common/context.go` [2488](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2448)) utils have been removed. Those were left-over from the previous version of our JS module APIs and are unsupported as of **v0.38.0**.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* This release drops some left overs from the previous version of our JS module APIs. As of **v0.38-0**, these are now unsupported:
  * The deprecated `common.Bind` ([2488](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2448)) and `common.BindToGlobal` ([2451](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2451)) functions.
  * The context-based (`common/context.go` [2488](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2448)) utils have also been removed. 
```

* k6 will now parse and evaluate thresholds before the execution starts. If a threshold is invalid, as described below, k6 will immediately exit without starting the load test. 
* k6 will now detect invalid thresholds:
  * incorrect thresholds expressions:
    ```javascript
    export const options = {
      vus: 5,
      iterations: 30,
      thresholds: {
          http_req_failed: ['rave<0.01'],  // "rave" is not a valid aggregation method
      },
    };
    
    ``` 
  * thresholds applying to a non-existing metric
    ```javascript
    export const options = {
      vus: 5,
      iterations: 30,
      thresholds: {
          iDoNotExist: ['p(95)<200'], // The metric we apply the expression to does not exist
      },
    };
    ```
  * thresholds applying an aggregation method that's unsupported by the metric they apply to
    ```javascript
    export const options = {
      vus: 5,
      iterations: 30,
      thresholds: {
          my_counter: ['p(95)<200'], // Counter metrics do not support the p() aggregation method
      },
    };
    ```

> ### Support for encrypted TLS private keys

Reviewer 5: Why isn't this in "New features"?

Author: From my perspective, this is really an improvement over an existing feature. We already supported TLS private keys, just not those that were encrypted with a passphrase. I would leave it there unless you wholeheartedly disagree 😸  (in which case, feel free to un-resolve the conversation.

> It is now possible to use passphrase protected private keys when performing TLS authentication. Using the `password` property of an options' `tlsAuth` object, you can now indicate to k6 the passphrase to use to decrypt a private key. Note that this support is limited to the scope of [rfc1423](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc1423) and does not support PKCS8 keys, as they're not yet supported by the golang standard library. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Now you can use passphrase-protected private keys when authenticating with TLS. Using the `password` property of an options' `tlsAuth` object, you can now indicate the passphrase to use to decrypt a private key. Note that this support is limited to the scope of [RFC1423](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc1423) and does not support PKCS8 keys, as they're not yet supported by the golang standard library. 
```

      cert: open('mycert.pem'),
      key: open('mycert-key.pem'),
      password: 'mycert-passphrase',
    },
  ],
};
```

Thanks, @Gabrielopesantos, for the [contribution](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2488).

### Improve JSON output's performance ([2436](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2436))

The JSON output was optimized and now should around 2x as more performant at outputting metrics.  This means that it either will be able to export twice as many metrics and/or to use half the resources to do the same amount of metrics. As a side effect, there is a slight breaking change in which the `tags` field is no longer sorted, while it was previously.

### Treat panics as interrupt errors ([2453](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2453))

We changed the behavior of how k6 treats panic, which can happen during the execution of JavaScript test scripts code. Previously, the behavior was to catch the panic and log it as an error. Starting with **v0.38.0**, whenever k6 observes a panic, it logs an error like before, but more importantly, it will abort the script execution. This change should help identify and address the issues earlier.

### Miscellaneous

> * To achieve consistency with the existing `--log-output` command-line flag, the `--logformat` flag is now considered deprecated and the new `--log-format` takes its place ([2410](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2410)). The same goes for the `K6_LOGFORMAT` environment variable, which is now deprecated and replaced by `K6_LOG_FORMAT` to be consistent with the existing `K6_LOG_OUTPUT`.

Reviewer 5: Isn't this a breaking change?

Author: It is not, as far as I understand it. When we deprecate something, we only "mark" it as deprecated, but not yet removed, hence no breaking changes in our users workflows (yet).

* [2411](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2411) The k6 command-line UI (logo, test description and progerss bars) can now effectively be disabled using the [`--quiet`](https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/options/#quiet) flag.
* [2411](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2411) The logs can now be saved to a file, or sent to Loki, or completely disabled with [`--log-output`](https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/options/#log-output) flag.
* [2411](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2411) the end-of-test summary can be sent to a remote server or to file through [`handleSummary()`](https://k6.io/docs/results-visualization/end-of-test-summary/#handlesummary-callback).

> * [2429](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2429) `lib/types` now exposes the source of the `NullHostnameTrie` to simplify the access to an original list of the hostnames.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* [2429](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2429) `lib/types` now exposes the source of the `NullHostnameTrie` to simplify access to an original list of the hostnames.
```

* [#2484](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2484) moved out in a new dedicated Go `lib/netext/grpcext` package all the parts not strictly required from the `js/k6/net/grpc` module for binding the gRPC operations and the JavaScript runtime. It facilitates the development of extensions based on gRPC without the direct dependency on the `goja` runtime. Furthermore, the new [Dial](https://github.com/grafana/k6/blob/bef458906f6884a99843573223028981c0a8b8db/lib/netext/grpcext/conn.go#L72-L81) function accepts a [grpc.DialOption](https://pkg.go.dev/google.golang.org/grpc@v1.45.0#DialOption) variadic for customizing the dialing operation.
## Bugs Fixed!

* [2456](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2456) Fixed a very unlikely panic involving arrival rate executors and execution segments with very low VU counts.
* [2349](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2349) Thanks to @rainingmaster it is now possible to leave the options' tlsAuth `domains` property empty.

## Known issues

> * @hecnavsanz [reported to us](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/2500) that in certain scenarios, k6's UI might inacurately report a test as failed :x: when it actually succeeded :white_check_mark:. This is caused by some concurrency issue in our codebase that only affects the report's UI, and has no impact on the actual test result. A [fix](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2502) is in the work, but won't be ready for this version. We expect to ship it with the next k6 release instead.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* @hecnavsanz [reported to us](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/2500) that in certain scenarios, k6's UI might inacurately report a test as failed :x: when it actually succeeded :white_check_mark:. This is caused by some concurrency issue in our codebase that only affects the report's UI, and has no impact on the actual test result. A [fix](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2502) is in the works, but won't be ready for this version. We expect to ship it with the next k6 release instead.
```
